**Razer** was a robot which competed in the British television game show *Robot Wars*. One of the most famous robots in the history of robotic combat, two-time World Champion Razer remains the most successful robot in the show's history, with forty battle victories and seven robot combat championships to its name. Razer was the second-longest appearing competitor in the show's history, competing in Series 2-6 of the original series, both series of *Robot Wars Extreme* and later Series 8, as well as appearing in foreign versions of the show.
 
**Download File ✑ [https://zoohogonka.blogspot.com/?file=2A0SSE](https://zoohogonka.blogspot.com/?file=2A0SSE)**


 
Razer's early career was defined by its ability to excel in every area except the main competition; despite winning back-to-back Best Design Awards and a number of side tournaments (including The First World Championship), it was only able to achieve three combat victories in as many UK Championships, breaking down in the second round of Series 2 and 3 and losing in the Heat B Final of Series 4 to Pussycat.
 
Razer had far greater success post-2000, finally escaping the Heats in Series 5 and defeating Firestorm 3 and Bigger Brother to win the UK Championship trophy. Returning to defend its title in Series 6, Razer once again won its heat and reached the Grand Final, but placed second after losing a close-fought and famous judges' decision with its main rival, Tornado. It continued to excel in side competitions, winning The Second World Championship and two All-Stars tournaments.
 
Like Hypno-Disc and Chaos 2, Razer's design was so popular and effective that it inspired a number of similar designs. Indeed, later robots armed with vertical crushers, such as Ming 3, the Series 5 version of Suicidal Tendencies, R.O.C.S., Pinser, and Tiberius 2 and 3, would often have their weapons described by Jonathan Pearce as 'Razer-esque', further emphasising its influence.
 
Razer came back again for Series 3, having been improved over 3 months. Its wheels were better-protected with new wheel guards, sleeker and more lightweight hardened sheet steel armour was fitted, and most importantly, two "wings" were added to the side of the crushing arm to serve as a self-righting mechanism, should Razer ever be flipped over. The mechanism worked twofold; it fired the wings and locked the beak in the full upright position, so that when Razer rolled back over the tip of its scorpion tail would cushion the impact of hitting the floor, protecting the vulnerable underbelly from damage. Razer's wing expansion was so visually impressive that many began to refer to it as a "salute". The Series 3 version of Razer had new rear wheels and a Gyro, both added to improve control. The addition of a Gyro was suggested to Team Razer by George Francis of Team Chaos. During this series, Razer's tail was also briefly demonstrated to lift an opponent (Techno-Lease) off the arena floor, though this would be one of the rare occasions in which it would be used as an offensive weapon. In some later appearances, the 'tail' was bent sideways, effectively eliminating this capability.

In Series 4, Razer narrowly weighed over the pre-Extreme 1 Heavyweight Limit, weighing exactly 80.0kg while the weight limit was 79.4kg, although Razer was far from the only robot to go over this limit.
 
During Extreme 1, the armour was upgraded, the transmission improved and a heavier wedge was added to the front of Razer to allow it to drive robots on to the immediate mercy of its claw (it used this to great effect against Firestorm, Dantomkia and Tornado) making it viciously nimble and accurate. In addition, Razer had an adjustable 'torsion bar' suspension that allowed very precise positioning of the front wedge 'snout', ultimately allowing it to lower or raise the wedge. It may have been remotely adjusted, but this is unclear.
 
The most notable change for Series 6 was the addition of an optional upward-facing 'claw', which could be attached to the end of the beak and act as a small lifting device without extensively modifying the original weapon. This attachment was used solely in the Grand Final against Tornado, with the specific intent of allowing Razer to hook and lift Tornado by the frame for its 'anti-crusher weapon' (see 'Rivalries').
 
In Extreme 2, Razer's internals were upgraded. Although this improved Razer's performance considerably, its motors were left untouched and struggled to support the power of the machine. This caused Razer to overheat and burn its motors out, which it did in the Extreme 2 All-Stars and the European Championship. The original wheels were also replaced with spiked ones, in order to give Razer extra grip and traction on the arena floor. The robot's weight was also reduced from 96kg to 91.5kg as a result, putting Razer under the weight limit by 8.5kg. Finally, a new attachment was designed with twin upward-facing hooks, again exclusively used against Tornado in the European Championship.
 
In 2016, Razer received a number of upgrades to keep it up to date with the new rules and to maintain competitiveness against more modern opponents. Its speed increased to 12mph, while the robot was modified to feature contemporary internals including lithium polymer batteries, also reducing the robot's weight. Razer's blue and red wheels were refitted as the spiked wheels seen in Extreme 2 offered no advantage on the steel floor.
 
Razer also featured an unused wedge modification, providing a broad 19kg surface at the front of the robot, intended to defend the robot when fighting spinners such as Carbide, though Razer was eliminated before it had the chance to use it. The wedge itself was made of 2.5mm HARDOX with a 5mm shield, and when Razer was equipped with the unused scoop, the robot weighed 109kg in total.
 
A misconception perpetuated by Jonathan Pearce in Series 2 was that Razer was named after Neil "Razor" Ruddock, a football player who played for West Ham United at the time of recording. Connections to household razors have also been drawn by fans, as the word is phonetically identical, and the name Razer was commonly misspelled as a result. In reality, the name Razer was simply an extension of the verb "raze", which means "to level to the ground (e.g. a building)", with the robot's weapon intending to 'level' other robots by crushing them.
 
In its debut series, Razer was entered by co-captains Ian Lewis and Simon Scott, with both Dorset-based industrial engineers co-designing and building their machine, and were equally responsible for its maintenance and financing. In all of its appearances, Ian Lewis was the driver of Razer. From Series 3 until the end of Extreme 2, Team Razer was completed by Vinnie Blood, brother of Ian's fiance, who also wrote the Razer website. The team parted ways with Vinnie Blood at the end of Extreme 2, and upon Razer's return to *Robot Wars* in 2016 for Series 8, Ian Lewis invited his wife Gillian and daughter Darcie to complete the line-up. Gillian Lewis had previously competed on the show separately with Widow's Revenge.
 
Razer comfortably qualified for Series 2 and 3 through the auditioning process. Due to being seeded in Series 4, Razer automatically qualified and did not need to go through the qualifiers. However, it would still attend the 2000 *Robot Mayhem* event - itself hosting these qualifiers - for static displays and arena demonstrations.[6][7]
 
Changes to the seeding selection process meant that only the 16 UK Semi-Finalists were given automatic places, along with eight Heat Finalists from Series 4. Razer's status as incumbent World Champion enabled it to gain the provisional fifth seed prior to the start of the 2001 Live Event tour, whose qualifiers would be used to help finalise the remaining seeds.[8] Razer would still go on to take part in qualifier battles at later stages of the tour, first doing so at the London Arena event against newcomer Lightning. The head-to-head saw it pierce Lawrie Calvert's machine five times and win the Judges' decision, though ultimately unable to immobilise Lightning in the process.[9]
 
Both would later fight a six-way melee also involving Gravedigger, On Guard and Shunt, plus an as-yet unidentified robot. Aside from a few moments where Razer attacked Lightning and Shunt separately, little else is known about this battle or its outcome. Nevertheless, Razer's place in Series 5 had already been secured, with Gravedigger being the only other competitor to qualify alongside it.[10]
 
According to an audience member account, Razer also performed demonstrations at the London Arena event, along with a role as a 'guest' House Robot in a qualifier 'final' between Reactor 2 and Aggrobot 3. Paired with Shunt, it seized Aggrobot 3 at one point and eventually dumped it into the pit, concluding a battle largely dominated by Reactor 2.[12]
 
Razer made further appearances at the Wembley Arena Live Event, where, according to the original *Robot Wars Magazine*, it was formally introduced as a one-off House Robot.[13] It also competed in further qualifier battles against potential hopefuls, the first being a head-to-head against the full-bodied drum spinner Barber-Ous. Though the exact outcome of this battle is unknown, it is known that Razer dodged Barber-Ous' weapon and dealt damage in return, with its opponent eventually going on to qualify as well.
 
Razer engaged in battle with Roobarb and Shunt during the fight, with Roobarb succeeding in pitting both. However, as it had not been fully pushed in, the double World Champion eventually escaped and responded by piercing Roobarb multiple times. Only the badly-damaged Granny's Revenge would qualify alongside Razer following this melee. At some point during the tour, Razer was promoted from the fifth to the fourth seed, above Series 4 third-place finisher Stinger.
 
Razer is also stated to have fought another melee-type battle at the Wembley 