
 
The **Alfa Romeo Twin Cam engine** is an all-alloy inline-four engine series produced by Alfa Romeo from 1954 to 1994. In Italian it is known as the "bialbero" ("twin-shaft"), and has also been nicknamed the "Nord" (North) engine in reference to its being built in Portello, Milan (later Arese, close to Milan), in the North of Italy and to distinguish it from the Alfa Romeo Boxer engine built in the South (Sud) for the Alfasud.
 
**Download ————— [https://zoohogonka.blogspot.com/?file=2A0SWv](https://zoohogonka.blogspot.com/?file=2A0SWv)**


 
The Twin Cam's predecessor appeared in the 1950 Alfa Romeo 1900 and was an under-square inline four cylinder with a cast-iron block, an aluminium alloy crossflow cylinder head with double overhead cams and a 90 included angle between intake and exhaust valves. Development of that engine was overseen by Orazio Satta Puliga who would also helm development of its successor. The 1952 Disco Volante had a 2-litre DOHC four cylinder engine with an aluminium block and sleeves, but this seems to have been a custom version of the 1900 engine rather than a prototype of the forthcoming Twin Cam. While the Twin Cam shared some features with the 1900 engine, it was a new design by Giuseppe Busso.[1]
 
The engine displaced 1,290 cc (1.3 L) in the 1954 Giulietta.[2] In 1960 another version of the Twin Cam was unveiled along with the Alfa Romeo Tipo 103 small car prototype.[3] This version was noteworthy because, with a bore of 66 mm (2.60 in), a stroke of 65.5 mm (2.58 in) and displacing just 896 cc (0.9 L), it was the smallest four-cylinder Twin Cam ever. Power was 39 kW; 53 PS (52 bhp) at 5500 rpm. In adapting the engine to the transverse front-engine, front-wheel-drive layout the engine block and transaxle case were built as one unit. Only three of these engines were built.

On June 27, 1962, a larger Twin Cam appeared in the just-released Giulia.[4] The obvious change was that displacement was increased to 1,567 cc (1.6 L), but the engine was also now being produced using a different casting method. The diameter of the valve stems had been increased by 1 to 9 mm (0.04 to 0.35 in), the bore centre spacing was different, the timing chain longer and the crankshaft had been revised, among other changes.[5]
 
In 1968 the engine was again enlarged, this time to 1,779 cc (1.8 L), for the 1750 GTV and 1750 Berlina.[6] Additional changes to this version included offsetting the big-end bearings on the connecting rods, and adding sodium-filled exhaust valves.[5] In 1971 a 1,962 cc (2.0 L) version was introduced for the 2000 GTV and 2000 Berlina. This largest production Twin Cam also had fewer teeth in the ring-gear and 6 bolts holding the flywheel instead of 8.[5]
 
When the engine was adapted for use in the Alfetta in 1972, this necessitated a new oil pump and a change away from the finned sump used in the 105-series cars.[5] While this was an aesthetic loss it may have been beneficial in other ways, as some owners reported that the old sump kept the engine and oil so cool that in cold weather it was sometimes necessary to block off the radiator airflow to raise the coolant temperature enough for the interior heater to be effective. Since the Alfetta also used a rear-mounted transaxle, there was no need for a pilot bearing in the engine.[5]
 
The Twin Cam was the first production automobile engine to employ a form of Variable Valve Timing (VVT).[7] The system that appeared on the 1980 Spider was an electro-mechanical system employing a variator to alter the phase but not duration of the intake camshaft.
 
Even though Alfa Romeo never sold a production version of the Twin Cam with more than 8 valves, at least two 16 valve cylinder heads were available. A number of Autodelta engines had them, and another 16-valve head was developed by the tuner Franco Angelini.
 
Some Autodelta cylinder heads had an included angle between the intake and exhaust valves narrower than the 80 used in the majority of the production engines. These heads are called "testa stretta" (narrow head).
 
In 1967 the Alfa Romeo GTA SA debuted at the Geneva Motor Show. Built by Autodelta, the 1,567 cc (1.6 L) Twin Cam engine was boosted by two superchargers driven by an engine-powered oil pump. Power was reported to be 220 bhp (223 PS; 164 kW).[8]
 
In 1979 the Alfa Romeo GTV Turbodelta was released. The 2 litre engine was augmented by a KKK turbocharger blowing through a pair of Dell'Orto DHLA40H pressurised carburetors and produced 150 bhp (152 PS; 112 kW) in normal tune.[9] This car was only offered until 1981 when Alfa Romeo left Group 4 to concentrate on Formula 1. 400 were built.[10]
 
Alfa Romeo's Twin Spark technology used dual ignition to fire two spark plugs in the cylinder head of each piston bore and was first used in the A.L.F.A. Grand Prix car of 1914. Racing versions of the Giulia engine, including the engine used in the GTA, featured a cylinder head with two spark plugs per cylinder. Twin Spark versions of the Twin Cam were also developed for 1750 and 2000 models used for racing.
 
In 1987 the production Alfa 75 2.0 Twin Spark was fitted with a Twin Spark head, which provided improved fuel ignition and allowed an improved combustion chamber shape with narrower angle between intake and exhaust valve. Although developed from the Twin Cam, few if any parts are interchangeable between Twin Spark engines and Twin Cams. For instance, while Twin Cams have six oilways leading to the cylinder head the Twin Sparks only have two, the timing chain cover is narrowed and the included angle between the valves is down to 46.[5] The Twin Spark engine in the 75 also employed Alfa's *variatore di fase* VVT system which, when combined with electronic fuel injection, gave a power output of 148 PS (109 kW; 146 bhp).
 
The Nord engine is an aluminum four-cylinder with a double camshaft. 8 valves. Developed in 1954 and in production until 1997. This engine is used in almost all classic models of Alfa Romeo. The best known are the Alfa Romeo Giulietta, the GTV, Alfetta, Spider, 75 Turbo and even in the 155 and 164. The later models of this engine already had the L-jetronic system with a 60-2 triggering on the crankshaft and electric injectors. The older models with carburetor are therefore very easy to convert to injection using the EFIgnition system and some donor parts from the newer engine.
 
But the newer versions also benefit considerably by applying better electronics, replacing the district air weigher with a MAP sensor and applying distributor-free ignition. We have seen the Alfa Romeo Nord engine in Turbo variant deliver well above 300 hp without further reinforcements on the circuit. Without breaking!
 
Some "tuners" do not control the 2nd spark plug. It doesn't matter, they argue. The real reason is that their used equipment cannot steer the 2nd coil or lack the knowledge to connect it correctly. The engineers at Alfa Romeo had not just placed a second spark plug in the combustion space. The flame front spreads much faster in the combustion chamber, so that the ignition must be set approximately 10 degrees later in order to get the peak pressure at the right moment. The piston is counteracted less in its rising (compression) stroke. The efficiency of the motor increases as a result. The EFIgnition can control up to 12 ignition coils, so the Twin-Spark engine is no problem at all.
 
The later versions had Variable Valve Timing. The system was called "variatore di fase" by Alfa Romeo. This gives the engine a wider power band (high torque over a wider speed range by hydraulically turning the camshaft. An electric valve in an oil channel ensures switching on. The VVT is excellent to control with the EFIgnition.
 
The 60 degree V6 engine is available in various variants. The simplest is the 2.0 liter with 12 valves. This occurs for example in the classic GTV and 75. The most powerful is the 3.2 liter 24V. In between there are also interesting variants such as the 2.0 24V Turbo of the 916 GTV. It is a beautifully built "even fire" engine. The later models had a 60-2 trigger wheel on the crankshaft as standard. So even the very early models are very easy to convert to injection. We have worked on these engines in the Alfa Romeo GTV (both the classic model and the 916), the SZ, a 155 racer's and many more models, among others. It is a beautiful engine to look at. And they run fantastic on an EFIgnition system.
 
The newer Twin Spark engines are found in the Alfa Romeo 155, 145, 146. They are well-balanced engines that can be incredibly powerful when blown. Controlling the Twin Spark system is no problem at all, just like the on-off camshaft adjustment (VVT). We also supported conversion projects where these engines were equipped with a turbo. Among others, Novitec has made kits for these engines. Only its electronics were dramatic. With the EFIgnition this kit really comes into its own. For the later models where the revolution counter and the water temperature run over the CAN bus: No problem. The EFIgnition has a CANbus chip and provides the dashboard with the necessary information.
 
The Alfa Romeo engine has hemispherical combustion chambers, while the Lotus-Ford engine makes do with what one might call semi-hemi. While the hemispherical combustion is ideal for achieving a greater fuel and air mixture to burn, it often suffers a little when it comes to actually burning that mixture in an effective manner. Alfa Romeo tried to compensate for this in 1965 when they introduced a twin spark head with two spark plugs per combustion chamber for their Nord twincam engine.
 
Impressively, Facel Vega failed even more spectacularly when they decided to ape Alfa Romeo and introduced their new and smaller Facellia in 1960. The French developed twincam was only given two supporting bearings for each camshaft which led to excessive flexing, timing issues and more often than not complete failure